Tyler’s Silo is a synchronous granular synthesis engine. Tyler’s Silo Sequence is a sequencer for Tyler's Silo . Both were implemented in Matlab I have included a file called ExampleScripts.m which demonstrates four playable examples of Tyler’s Silo and Tyler’s Silo Sequence.

Tyler’s Silo accepts six input arguments: input signal, grain length, platter width, start time, number of streams and output length. Grain length is given in milliseconds and should be between roughly between 1 and 100 milliseconds to create the effect of granular synthesis. Platter width is a term I created to describe the section of samples from which Tyler’s Silo draws grains from. If the platter width is set to 1, this means that it is equal to the grain length. If it is set to 5, for example, it is 5 times the length of the grain in samples. The reason a user would select an amount other than 1, is that a larger platter width allows Tyler’s Silo to randomly select a grain from within that window. This creates a timbral blurring effect that brings the output closer to white noise. I have found that platter width around 1.1 to 1.5 creates a nice phasing effect. Start time is the amount of time into the input signal the platter begins. This is given in seconds but is converted to samples in Tyler’s Silo. Number of streams denotes the amount of times granular synthesis within Tyler’s Silo is performed, added and scaled. Numbers under 20 tend to result in strongly digital sounding output. Numbers over 20, depending on the platter width, grain size and input signal, can take on more organic sounding characteristics. Output length is the size of the output signal from Tyler’s Silo in seconds. Tyler’s Silo works by applying a hann window to each grain which is then overlapped and added to an output signal. These output signals are added and scaled according to the user input.

Tyler’s Silo Sequence accepts the following arguments: input signal, number of notes, note length, range of grain length, range of stream count, grain lock, stream lock, platter width, envelope and start time. Number of notes designates the total amount of notes output by Tyler’s Silo Sequence. Note length designates the length of each note output by Tyler’s Silo Sequence in seconds. Range of grain length denotes the range from which Tyler’s Silo Sequence randomly will select the grain length of each note output. Range of stream count denotes the range from which Tyler’s Silo Sequence randomly selects the amount of times granular synthesis is performed, added and scaled for each note output. Grain lock and stream lock are two controls I made that allow a user to make it so that grain length and stream count are non-random. This works by setting grain lock or stream lock to the the grain length or stream cout desired by the user and setting grain length or stream count to 1. Grain lock and stream lock are off when they are set to 1. Envelope is a user defined envelope for each note output. 

The results of both Tyler’s Silo and Tyler’s Silo Sequence are pleasing to my ears, but there are many things I’d like to improve on both designs. One of the most important change I’d like to make would be to allow to user to change whether the granular synthesis method is synchronous or asynchronous. I’d also like the user to be able to more easily adjust randomness parameters. For instance, I’d like a user to be able to input a scale that the sequencer would randomly produced notes in. 